Paul Coleman
Computer Scientist
Software Engineer
Provo, UT
shrifty88@gmail.com
Currently advancing through a Master of Science program in Computer Science, I am
deeply engaged in exploring and developing innovative solutions in Machine Learning,
AI, and Robotics My academic journey is complemented by practical experience,
including a leadership role in a robotics project at Utah Valley University and a Full
Stack Developer position at ResNexus. My goal is to leverage my academic knowledge
and hands-on experience in a dynamic professional setting, where I can contribute to
cutting-edge technological advancements.
Professional Experience
Full Stack Software Developer
ResNexus | August 2023 - December 2023
● Developed, tested, deployed, and maintained software solutions such as working
with databases using SQL, MYSQL, C#, .NET, .ASP.NET, JSON, XML, and unit
testing.
● Contributed to various full-stack development projects, enhancing the company's
existing software products.
● Proposed automation solutions to tasks that were being performed manually.
● Integrated 3rd party API’s into our product.
Software Engineer Internship
Utah Valley University | June 2021 - January 2022
Tasked with the planning, development, and testing of software architectures, ML
models, autonomous functionality, and natural language processing on two humanoid
robots. Already having tremendous interest in the field of ML and AI, I took leadership
of the project at the beginning and through our communication and teamwork, we were
able to problem solve the complexities of the project and meet our deadlines.
● Robots utilize computer vision alongside the training data of over 200 guests,
including Utah Senator Mike Lee, and company founder Scott M. Smith of
Qualtrics.
● Robots and myself are featured in UVU’s promotional film.
● Attended a gala fundraiser presented by UVU where my robots greeted guests,
bowed, shook hands and talked with them.
Teaching Assistant
Utah Valley University | January 2021 - December 2021
● Supported and assisted the professors of two Junior level CS courses, Python
Software Development and C++ Software Development.
● Selected the C++ standard library that would be used by the students for that
semester.
● Taught some students how to use Git and Linux shell for version control and
scripting of their programs.
● Responsible for grading; I frequently helped student’s adhere to a set of
standardized coding practices via one-on-one’s and course announcements.
● As a teaching assistant for C++ and Python, I graded student submissions and
provided tutoring for some students.
Software Developer
Personal Projects | August 2018 - January 2023
● Java - Compiler, ByteCode Assembler, Virtual Machine, and Parser.
● C - Developed my own C library of data structures.
● C++ - Teacher Aid for C++ Software Development and created a memory pool
that allows for constant execution time.
● C# - Scaled down, but fully functional virtual Operating System using C# and
.NET.
● Python – Anti-spam / Anti-phishing AI model, Embedded Systems, Computer
Vision, Machine Learning. Created Web API for a stock market prediction
application.
● Web Development – Form Generator using HTML / HTML5, CSS, JavaScript,
MySQL, AJAX that creates a letter of recommendation.
● Game Development - Custom games (2D and 3D) that use the Unity platform.
● Networking – TCP, IP, UDP, sockets.
Education
Master of Science | Computer Science | Utah Valley University | January 2023 - May
2025
Bachelor of Science | Computer Science | Utah Valley University | August 2018 - August
2022
Associate of Science | Computer Science | Utah Valley University | 2018 - 2021
Key Skills
● Python (Programming Language)
● Full Stack Web Development
● Scrum
● Agile Process
● Model Training
● Computer Vision
● Embedded Software Programming
● Machine Learning (ML)
● Leadership
● Computer Architecture
● Artificial Intelligence (AI)
● Java
● C++
● C
● C#
● JavaScript
● MySQL
● AWS
● API's
● UI/UX Design
● Node.js
● Git
● GitHub
● Shell Scripting
● Linux
● Unix
● Windows
● .NET
● ASP.NET
● .NET MVC
● Queries and query optimization.
● HTML5 / CSS
● TCP/IP
● Computer Networking
● Docker
● Web Development
● Compiler Construction
● Communication
● Teamwork
● Organization Skills
● Social Intelligence